New players: Start Here!

Marble Blast is an excellent game that is pretty easy to pick up. However before you jump into it, you should know there is a certain game order. Follow it and you'll gain maximum enjoyment and you'll become good as well.

Marble Blast Platinum (MBP) was developed and released at a time where hard and sometimes long levels were all the rage. As such its levels are much harder than those in Marble Blast Gold (MBG), and they offer advanced techniques to match. These techniques are used in many custom levels as well, making it a must to understand how they work and quickly get better at them.

If this is your first time in Marble Blast, stop right here. Your first priority, after configuring the Options, is to go to Gold's levels from the singleplayer level select screen, and choose the beginner difficulty. Start progressing from there. These easy levels will help you to learn how to control the marble, and they will teach you the basic techniques of this game. It is recommended you play all of these levels (and Platinum's) on the leaderboards, as you can get ratings and achievements, talk to community members, and make friends.

Once you're through beginner, continue to intermediate and then advanced. Levels will progressively get harder, but you will learn. If you get stuck, take advantage of the removal of any qualifications; you can pick any level to play, so skip right to the next one. Eventually you'll run out and just be stuck with a number of levels you cannot complete.

At this stage you should go to Platinum's beginner levels, and start from there. You will immediately notice the difficulty increasing, and the techniques you learn are more advanced. For example, learning diagonal movement as the new basic form of movement, and advanced techniques like wall hit and edge hit. You will find them difficult, but keep pressing on and you'll pass them.

After you've finished the beginners, you can continue with Platinum intermediates and onwards. Again you'll find the difficulty becoming harder pretty quickly, so once you're stuck, stop there and go back to Gold. You will find the previously hard levels much easier to beat, and you will be able to beat most if not all of them.

Now that you've done that, start aiming to beat as many Gold Times as possible. Thanks to the techniques from Platinum, you'll be able to attain a lot of them. As you get better there, you will find yourself returning to Platinum and beating levels there more easily. Eventually you will get to the point where you can start beating the Ultimate Times, Platinum's hardest challenge. Further progress from there includes watching videos and mimicking others, learning their tricks and improving all the time.

While you're doing all that, you can also hop in to Multiplayer. You will find a range of players with different skills. Don't worry if you get beaten down, as some players have played this game for years and have had thousands if not tens of thousands of hours of experience, grinding down many levels. Some players will be easier to beat and you'll learn how to play Multiplayer with their help; don't hesitate to ask for helpful advice as well, we'll be happy to teach.

Our community is very friendly and we are always happy to meet new people. Don't be afraid if you feel bad, we all started where you are and got better with practice. Essentially if you are fun to play with, you will always get people to play with you, no matter your skill level.

Enjoy Marble Blast!