Console, Bugs & Contact Us

If you require further help or assistance, you are welcome to post on the Marble Blast Forums under the Support Board. You should read the board rules so that when you post an inquiry we may assist you better. You can also e-mail us at marbleblastforums@gmail.com

We also welcome bug reports. Some bugs that you may encounter are known and documented, and may be fixed in the next patch or version. Some bugs will not be fixed as they are related to the Marble Blast engine. While we do our best to modify the engine to fix bugs, some would take too long and would have little compensation. Modifications of the engine are extremely hard and require good knowledge of how it's built; it is easy enough to miss a byte and have the game not even launch.

The console has been equipped with several buttons that can help both you and us. From left to right order the buttons are:
Trace: A very useful button, it spams out all functions and calls in the console. It is recommended to use it before demonstrating a bug, as that it will help us identify how the bug has happened. Not that in some cases it doesn't tell us anything, but it is quite reliable. Note that it spams a lot very quickly and will cause Marble Blast to crash if left enabled for too long. Filesize on crash may very, but is usually 10 Megabytes or more.
Fast: Enables 'Fast' mode. Disables features like loading bars, marble smoothing and rotation among others. Not recommended unless you lag terribly during Multiplayer matches.
ModPaths: A quick 'relaunch' button that reloads the game's filesystem, so it can detect whether you changed files, added or removed. Great if you want to change custom levels without having to restart the game. Don't press too many times as it will crash Marble Blast.
Debug: Enabled 'Debug' mode. The console will output additional DEBUG information that can help in the identification of bugs. Useful when sending a crash report.


The following is a list of bugs and errors that are known at this point in time:

1) Team score gem count ingame show 0/0/0/etc

2) Team scores don't have platinum gems count (for PQ levels) in the end game screen

3) Dedicated servers still have some odd bugs in them that have yet to be ironed out, such as the search showing levels incorrectly


For a further FAQ if you require, <a:marbleblast.com/index.php/forum/general-mb-discussion/7568-mbp-1-50-rc1-faq-thread>please check out this topic.</a>